======================================================================

		 *** FLOPS 2026 - Call For Papers ***
   18th International Symposium on Functional and Logic Programming

		    May 26-28, 2026, Akita, Japan

	   https://functional-logic.org/events/flops/2026/

======================================================================

FLOPS aims to bring together practitioners, researchers and implementers
of declarative programming, to discuss mutually interesting results and
common problems: theoretical advances, their implementations in language
systems and tools, and applications of these systems in practice. The
scope includes all aspects of the design, semantics, theory,
applications, implementations, and teaching of declarative programming.
FLOPS specifically aims to promote cross-fertilization between theory
and practice and among different styles of declarative programming.

Previous FLOPS meetings were held at Fuji Susono (1995), Shonan Village
(1996), Kyoto (1998), Tsukuba (1999), Tokyo (2001), Aizu (2002), Nara
(2004), Fuji Susono (2006), Ise (2008), Sendai (2010), Kobe (2012),
Kanazawa (2014), Kochi (2016), Nagoya (2018), Akita (2020, online), 
Kyoto (2022, online), and Kumamoto (2024). 

SCOPE

FLOPS solicits original papers in all areas of declarative programming:

* functional, logic, functional-logic programming, rewriting systems,
formal methods and model checking, program transformations and program
refinements, developing programs with the help of theorem provers or
SAT/SMT solvers, verifying properties of programs using declarative
programming techniques;

* foundations, language design, implementation issues (compilation
techniques, memory management, run-time systems, etc.), applications and
case studies.

FLOPS promotes cross-fertilization among different styles of declarative
programming. Therefore, research papers must be written to be
understandable by a wide audience of declarative programmers and
researchers. In particular, each submission should explain its
contributions in both general and technical terms, clearly identifying
what has been accomplished, explaining why it is significant for its
area, and comparing it with previous work. Submission of system
descriptions and declarative pearls are especially encouraged.

SUBMISSION

Submissions should fall into one of the following categories:

* Regular research papers: they should describe new results and will be
judged on originality, correctness, and significance.

* System descriptions: they should describe a working system and will be
judged on originality, usefulness, and design.

* Declarative pearls: new and excellent declarative programs or theories
with illustrative applications.

System descriptions and declarative pearls must be explicitly marked as
such in the title. Submissions must be unpublished and not submitted for
publication elsewhere. Work that already appeared in unpublished or
informally published workshops proceedings may be submitted. Submissions
must be written in English and can be up to 15 pages excluding
references, though system descriptions and pearls are typically shorter.
The formatting has to conform to Springer’s LNCS guidelines. FLOPS 2024
will employ a lightweight double-blind reviewing process.

For more details, see

   https://functional-logic.org/events/flops/2026/

Papers should be submitted electronically at

   TBD

PUBLICATION

The proceedings will be published by Springer in the LNCS series. We
expect to invite the authors of a selection of the best papers to submit
an extended version of their FLOPS paper to a special issue which will
appear in the journal Science of Computer Programming.

IMPORTANT DATES

All deadlines are Anywhere on Earth (AoE = UTC-12).

Abstracts due         Dec 8, 2025
Submission deadline   Dec 15, 2025
Notifications         Feb 2, 2026
Final versions        March 2, 2026

ORGANIZERS

Ekaterina Komendantskaya (Co-chair), School of Mathematical and
Computer Sciences (MACS), Heriot-Watt University

Mike Sperber (Co-chair), Active Group

Sin’ya Ryoma (Co-Chair), Department of Mathematical Science and
Electrical-Electronic-Computer Engineering, Akita University

FLOPS SPONSORSHIP

TBD

CONTACT ADDRESS

flops2026_at_deinprogramm_de
